README.md, before:

Libadalang2XML is a tool to extract syntatic aspects of Ada source code into XML.

The Ada source is initially read using [Libadalang](https://github.com/AdaCore/libadalang). The resulting tree is then traversed, and its structure output in an XML form.

The [document type definition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document_type_definition) isn't explicit; it's simply derived from the tree elements created by Libadalang. Note that Libadalang includes much more semantic information than the surface structure generated by this tool, but nevertheless there's enough there to -- for example -- create a scriptable body for a package spec.

As an example of the output, this code
``` ada
package Demo is
   procedure Square (X : in out Integer);
end Demo;
```
generates
``` xml
<CompilationUnit>
  <AdaNodeList/>
  <LibraryItem>
    <PrivateAbsent/>
    <PackageDecl>
      <DefiningName>
        <Id>Demo</Id>
      </DefiningName>
      <PublicPart>
        <AdaNodeList>
          <SubpDecl>
            <OverridingUnspecified/>
            <SubpSpec>
              <SubpKindProcedure>procedure</SubpKindProcedure>
              <DefiningName>
                <Id>Square</Id>
              </DefiningName>
              <Params>
                <ParamSpecList>
                  <ParamSpec>
                    <DefiningNameList>
                      <DefiningName>
                        <Id>X</Id>
                      </DefiningName>
                    </DefiningNameList>
                    <AliasedAbsent/>
                    <ModeInOut>in out</ModeInOut>
                    <SubtypeIndication>
                      <NotNullAbsent/>
                      <Id>Integer</Id>
                    </SubtypeIndication>
                  </ParamSpec>
                </ParamSpecList>
              </Params>
            </SubpSpec>
          </SubpDecl>
        </AdaNodeList>
      </PublicPart>
      <EndName>
        <Id>Demo</Id>
      </EndName>
    </PackageDecl>
  </LibraryItem>
  <PragmaNodeList/>
</CompilationUnit>
```

Commit message:

Better support for building.
  * README.md: added section on macOS issues.
  * alire.toml:
    (version): 0.1.1.
    (build-switches): new, specifies contracts and Ada 2022.
    (depends-on): for macOS, use gnat_external.
  * libadalang2xml.gpr (Compiler.Default_Switches): rely on switches
      specified via the manifest.

README.md, after:

Libadalang2XML is a tool to extract syntatic aspects of Ada source code into XML.

The Ada source is initially read using [Libadalang](https://github.com/AdaCore/libadalang). The resulting tree is then traversed, and its structure output in an XML form.

The [document type definition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document_type_definition) isn't explicit; it's simply derived from the tree elements created by Libadalang. Note that Libadalang includes much more semantic information than the surface structure generated by this tool, but nevertheless there's enough there to --- for example --- create a scriptable body for a package spec.

## macOS ##

For reasons explained [here](https://forward-in-code.blogspot.com/2023/03/libadalang-alire-and-macos.html), the tool can't be built on macOS using Alire's `gnat_native` compiler; you need to have a full compiler suite on your `PATH`, like that obtainable for [GCC 12.2.0 (x86\_64)](https://github.com/simonjwright/distributing-gcc/releases/tag/gcc-12.2.0-x86_64) or [GCC 12.2.0 (aarch64)](https://github.com/simonjwright/distributing-gcc/releases/tag/gcc-12.2.0-aarch64). Having set that up, `alr build` will built the tool.

## Example ##

As an example of the output, this code
``` ada
package Demo is
   procedure Square (X : in out Integer);
end Demo;
```
generates
``` xml
<CompilationUnit>
  <AdaNodeList/>
  <LibraryItem>
    <PrivateAbsent/>
    <PackageDecl>
      <DefiningName>
        <Id>Demo</Id>
      </DefiningName>
      <PublicPart>
        <AdaNodeList>
          <SubpDecl>
            <OverridingUnspecified/>
            <SubpSpec>
              <SubpKindProcedure>procedure</SubpKindProcedure>
              <DefiningName>
                <Id>Square</Id>
              </DefiningName>
              <Params>
                <ParamSpecList>
                  <ParamSpec>
                    <DefiningNameList>
                      <DefiningName>
                        <Id>X</Id>
                      </DefiningName>
                    </DefiningNameList>
                    <AliasedAbsent/>
                    <ModeInOut>in out</ModeInOut>
                    <SubtypeIndication>
                      <NotNullAbsent/>
                      <Id>Integer</Id>
                    </SubtypeIndication>
                  </ParamSpec>
                </ParamSpecList>
              </Params>
            </SubpSpec>
          </SubpDecl>
        </AdaNodeList>
      </PublicPart>
      <EndName>
        <Id>Demo</Id>
      </EndName>
    </PackageDecl>
  </LibraryItem>
  <PragmaNodeList/>
</CompilationUnit>
```
